Talk about this virtual keyword.
What the heck is that?
So virtual is a keyword
that essentially says,
I want to have a default implementation.
I want to have a default way
that this behavior works, but
I also want derived classes to be
able to modify it if they so choose.
So this is where the tooling comes in
because it makes it super easy to do.
I can start typing an override and
it gives me a list of
things that I can override.
Now, I mentioned that all objects
have equal and equals method,
a get hash code and a two string.
Those are all things that you can
override based out of the class.
Because get employee details is marched
ritual as well, we can override that.
So if we hit Tab, which I just did, and
that basically just kind of
put in all of the classes,
all of the behavior here that we
wanted to find the method for us.
Talk about a couple of things.
First things first, we got this base call.
Base Is what's known as the base class.
You can see if we hover over it,
it actually tells us base employee.
Now, it has nothing to do with
the base being in the name, and
I'll illustrate that by
just doing that real quick.
You can see that base refers
back to the employee class,
because that's what we inherited from.
But we can also call the get
employee details method.
Maybe we don't have our
own implementation or
maybe we just wanna add something
to this implementation.
So let's say that we wanted to add in
to this get employee details class,
we don't just want it to show
the first and last name.
If we're an hourly employee,
we also wanna show the rate.
So we'll do that with a nice
little template string.
So we'll say rate, and
then we will say hourly rate, boom.
And now when we call, our good employee
details from our derived class,
our hourly employee class,
what are you complaining about?
Done that run.
You'll see that George Harold's rate
additionally prints 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
So we're able to not only override
the default behavior of this
thing because of the virtual keyword,
we're also able to change the behavior.
We can change the behavior
completely if we wanted to.
We could return something nonsensical.
In this case, we're just kind of
buttoning on top of the functionality.
If we did not have this
virtual keyword here,
we would not be able to override it
the compiler, we'll throw an error.
So super important,
inheritance is a really important kind of
critical part of understanding
how C sharp class is and
objects kind of work together within
the runtime and in the language.
You can also, if you want to, if your
inheritance hierarchy gets complex enough,
you can declare a method as virtual
here and then seal it here.
And sealed essentially means
that no derived class from
hourly employee can now
override this behavior.
That gets into a whole different
discussion about inheritance hierarchies
and how deep should the rabbit hole go?
We'll get to that here in a minute.
>> Student: Because the implication is
that if you created a different class,
like salaried employee that inherited
from employee or base employee,
you would be able to override get
employee details in a different way.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Yes, but
if you inherited from hourly employees, so
like public class, really sad hourly
employee, You would not be able to,
Yeah, you're not able to override that
behavior because it's no longer here.
You can try copying and pasting it in.
All the compiler is going to do is just
say it's sealed you can't override it.
Fun fact, string is a class and
it is sealed.
I can only imagine the kind of behaviors
that developers could get into if
they could inherit from string.
Thank goodness they're
not able to do that.